.\" Manpage for File XSearch.
.\" Contact sellislem@gmail.com .in to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "31 May 2019" "1.0" "XSearch man page"
.SH NAME
xsearch \- a command line tool to search for a keyword in all files within a folder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsearch 
.RI "[" OPTION "] [" -f|--folder "] [ "-k|--keyword "]..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XSearch 
is Bash script command line for searching for a Keyword entered by the user and look through all directories, the output will be a hyperlink to the file and the line where the keyword was found. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --case-sensitive
Enable case sensitive search (Default case insensetive search)
.TP
.B -e, --extension 
Specify the Extension of the file to be search, currently support only one extension option (Default search through all Extensions)"
.TP
.B -f, --folder               
Specify the Directory, if not spesified seach in present working directory (pwd)
.TP
.B -k, --keyword              
Specify the Keyword. it supports both single strings and regex
.TP
.RS 0.5
.B  regex: 
For searching using regex, you should write your "regex" (between quotation) without (//) or (^$). Check out the Examples below.

.TP
.B -h, --help                 
Prints the program usage information and exits successfully.
.TP
.B -v, --version                 
Prints the program version number and exits successfully.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following will show a typical demo on how to use the command
.PP
.RS
.RI "Search for a single string keyword:"
.br
.BR $ " xsearch --folder my_folder --keyword my_keyword"
.br
.PP 
.RI "Search for the keyword test using regex:"
.br
.BR $ " xsearch --folder my_folder --keyword '(.+?-)?test(-.+)?' "
.br
.PP
.RI "Search for numbers using regex:"
.br
.BR $ " xsearch --folder my_folder --keyword '([0-9][0-9]*)'  "
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS
If The command line option is not used properly, this will end with exit status 1.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Abdelkadere Sellami (sellislem@gmail.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
The GNU General Public License V3.0
.PP
Copyright (c) 2019 Abdelkader Sellami
.PP
This document is part of the XSearch software.
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.PP
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.